\section{Introduction}\label{sec:introduction}
Many applications require the detection of events in a network as soon as they
happen or shortly thereafter, as the value of the information obtained by
detecting the events decays rapidly as times passes. For example, an emerging
trend in algorithmic stock trading is the use of automatic search through the
Web and social networks for pieces of information that can be used in trading
decisions before they appear in the more popular news
sites~\citep{Delaney2009,latar2015robot,wallstreet2015,McKinney2011}. Similarly,
intelligence, business and politics analysts are scanning online sources for new
information or rumors. While new items are often reblogged, retweeted, and
posted on a number of sites, it is sufficient to find an item once, as fast as
possible, before it loses its relevance or freshness. There is no benefit in seeing multiple
copies of the same news item or rumor. This is also the case when monitoring for
intrusions, infections, or defects in, respectively, a computer network, a
public water system, or a large electronic circuit.

Monitoring for new events or information is a fundamental search and detection
problem in a distributed data setting, not limited to social networks or graph
analysis. In this setting, the data is distributed among a large number of
nodes, and new items appear in individual nodes (for example, as the products of
processing the data available locally at the node), and may propagate (being
copied) to neighboring nodes on a physical or a virtual network. The goal is to
detect at least one copy of each new item as soon as possible. The search
application can access any node in the system, but it can only \emph{probe}
(i.e., check for new items on) a few nodes at a time. To minimize the time to
find new items, the search application needs to optimize the schedule of probing
nodes, taking into account (i) the distribution of copies of items among the
nodes (to choose which nodes to probe), and (ii) the decay of the items'
\emph{novelty} (or relevance/freshness) over time (to focus the search on most
relevant items). The main challenge is how to devise a good probing schedule in
the absence of prior knowledge about the generation and distribution of items in
the network.

% Commented by Matteo on 06/29
%Another application that faces a similar search problem is processing security
%raw data (e.g. gathered security raw footages that need to be processed).
%Ideally, given limited resources compared to the huge volume of the data, a
%schedule for processing (probing) different raw-dataset has to minimize the
%value of missing information (assuming newer information are more valuable than
%older ones).

\paragraph*{Contributions}
In this work we study the novel problem of computing an optimal node probing
schedule for detecting new items in a network under resource scarceness, i.e.,
when only a few nodes can be probed at a time. Our contributions to the study of
this problem are the following:

\begin{itemize*}
	\item We formalize a generic process that describe the creation and
		distribution of information in a network, and define the computational task of
		learning this process by probing the nodes in the network according to a
		schedule. The process and task are parametrized by the resource
		limitations of the observer and the decay rate of the novelty of
		items. We introduce a \emph{cost} measure to compare different
		schedules: the cost of a schedule is the limit of the average expected
		novelty of uncaught items at each time step. On the basis of
		these concepts,  we formally define the \emph{Optimal Probing Schedule
		Problem}, which requires to find the schedule with minimum cost.
	\item We conduct a theoretical study of the cost of a schedule, showing that
		it can \emph{be computed explicitly} and that it is a \emph{convex
		function} over the space of schedules. We then introduce
		\algoname,\footnote{In the Sherlock Holmes novel \emph{A study in
		scarlet} by A.~Conan Doyle, Wiggins is the leader of the ``Baker Street
		Irregulars'', a band of street urchins employed by Holmes as
		intelligence agents.} an algorithm to compute the optimal schedule by
		solving a constrained convex optimization problem through the use of an
		iterative method based on Lagrange multipliers.
	\item We discuss variants of \algoname for the realistic situation where
		the parameters of the process needs to be learned or can change over
		time. We show how to compute a schedule which is (probabilistically)
		guaranteed to have a cost very close to the optimal by only observing
		the generating process for a limited amount of time. We also present an
		MapReduce adaptation of \algoname to handle very large networks.
	\item Finally, we conduct an extensive experimental evaluation of \algoname
		and its variants, comparing the performances of the schedules it
		computes with natural baselines, and showing how it performs extremely
		well in practice on real social networks when using well-established
		models for generating new items (e.g., the independence cascade
		model~\citep{Kempe2003}).
\end{itemize*}

To the best of our knowledge, the problem we study is novel and we are the first
to devise an algorithm to compute an optimal schedule, both when the generating
process parameters are known and when they need to be learned. 
%A number of variants
%of the problem we introduce can be studied. We defer their analysis to the
%extended version of this work.

\para{Paper Organization} In Sect.~\ref{sec:prelims} we give introductory
definitions and formally introduce the settings and the problem. We discuss
related works in Sect.~\ref{sec:related_work}. In Sect.~\ref{sec:method} we
describe our algorithm \algoname and its variants. The results of our
experimental evaluation are presented in Sect.~\ref{sec:exp}. We conclude by
outlining directions for future work in Sect.~\ref{sec:concl}.
